# Statistical mechanics of the SIR model 

## Introduction

- The SIR model is widely used to understand and predict epidemic trajectories. 
- The SIR model, as it is usually formulated, is a special case of the original, more general model introduced by Kermack and McKendrick. 
- The more general SIR model takes the form of a renewal equation where the force of infection depends on the profile of infectiousness over time (give the form).
- This profile of infectiousness gives both the total amount of infectiousness for a single infection (the area under the curve) and the time at which onward infections are expected to occur.
- However: various individual-level dynamics can yield the same $A(\tau)$ distribution
- For the standard SIR model, we assume constant infectiousness for an exponentially-distributed amount of time at rate $\gamma$. 
- Equally consistent with this model is the scenario where everyone is infectious permanently, but with a waning infectiousness at rate $\gamma$. 
- Yet another possibility: everyone is infectious for just a single moment, and the timing of that infectiousness is exponentially distributed (with rate $\gamma$ from the time of infection. 
- Mean-field forecasts from all three models will be identical, but the individual-level uncertainty will impact both the variation around the mean, including the probability of stochastic epidemic extinction, as well as the effectiveness of various control measures such as test-and-trace. 
- Because of this, it is critical to know (a) given individual-level properties, how to rigorously formulate a population-level model and (b) given population-level observations, how to outline the range of possible individual-level properties that could give rise to these observations. 

- The population-level phenomena (that is, the structure of $A(\tau)$ ) may depend in the timing of infectiousness, the degree of infectiousness over time, the interpersonal contact rate, the clustering of contacts, all of which may vary across individuals. 
- Developing this theory will provide a basis for the collection of further behavioral and epidemiological data for informing disease transmission models. 


## Methods


## Results


## Discussion